Rome (#50)
Joystream/helpdesk: roles/content-curators/README.md

# Working as a curator

The main job for curators is to regularly check the content directory and channels, and checking that rules and guidelines are being followed. The basic rules are stated below.

## Content

Curators are responsible for ensuring the following:
1. Content are not in violation with the platform [ToS](https://testnet.joystream.org/#/pages/tos), meaning
  - illicit should be `censored`, and marked for takedown
  - content must be given assigned the appropriate license and, if required, attribution
  - explicit content must be marked as such
2. Content is resolving and playing as intended
  - content that is not playable should be marked as unlisted, and a heads up should be given to the channel owner in the forum
3. Metadata is correct
  - incorrect metadata should be corrected, unless the mistake requires more severe consequences (see 1.)

In order to achieve this, they need to get familiarized with the Joystream Versioned Store system, outlined [here](https://github.com/Joystream/joystream-content-system)

## Channels
Channels should be treated the same way as content, and the following basic rules should be enforced:

> - Channels that consistently violates the rules for [content](#content), should be censored or closed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Channels that consistently violate the rules for [content](#content), should be censored or closed
```

- Channels that delivers standout content should get "verified" on the platform

### Discretion

> These rules are not clearly defined in all cases, so it's important that curators are able to use discration. In many cases, it's preferable to try and get in touch with the channel owner first, rather than immediately pull the trigger. If in doubt, contact the `Lead` first. In other cases, immediate action may be required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These rules are not clearly defined in all cases, so it's important that curators are able to use discretion. In many cases, it's preferable to try and get in touch with the channel owner first, rather than immediately pull the trigger. If in doubt, contact the `Lead` first. In other cases, immediate action may be required.
```

"Speak softly, and carry a big stick"
- Theodore Roosevelt

# Advanced

> Some of the tasks expected by curators, requires manual [extrinsics](https://testnet.joystream.org/#/extrinsics). Not that all tasks that can be done in the UI directy, can also be done using extrinsics, but not vice-versa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of the tasks expected by curators require manual [extrinsics](https://testnet.joystream.org/#/extrinsics). Not  all required tasks can be done in the UI directly, but they can all be done through extrinsics.
```

> Some operations requires you to add the `curatorId` you wish to make the extrinsic with as input. This can be found with a [chain state](https://testnet.joystream.org/#/chainstate) query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some operations require you to add the `curatorId` you wish to make the extrinsic with as input. This can be found with a [chain state](https://testnet.joystream.org/#/chainstate) query:
```

The same options will be appear if you navigate to a content `entity`, added under the channel.

The UI will automatically select the appropriate key and credential, and preview the action you want to make.

#### Remove Verification

Same as [this](#verify).

#### Censor

Same as [this](#verify).

#### Un-Censor

Same as [this](#verify).

## Content
For content, all the actions performed includes changing one or more parameters in the `Versioned Store`. This requires more knowledge about how the system works.
The table below outlines the key actions that can be performed, with links to rough instructions:

| Action                  | Source     | Type      | Instructions                                     |
|-------------------------|------------|-----------|--------------------------------------------------|
| `Content License`       | Extrinsic  |`Internal` | [Link](#content-license-and-attribution)         |
| `Attribution`           | Extrinsic  |`Text`     | [Link](#content-license-and-attribution)         |
| `Curation Status`       | Extrinsic  |`Internal` | [Link](#curation-status)                         |

#### Content License and Attribution

> The Content License, and it's related property Attribution, is important to have configured correctly. Content that should be set as "Fair Use" or "Create Commons", would be in line with the Terms of Service if marked as such combined the appropriate attribution, would instead be violating these terms if another license, or missing/incorrect attribution is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Content License and its related property Attribution are both important to have configured correctly. Content that should be set as "Creative Commons" which would be in line with the Terms of Service if marked as such combined the appropriate attribution, would instead be violating these terms if another license, or missing/incorrect attribution is set.
```
